1. Build a Private Network:
Connect Tom and Tina's laptops using a LAN cable or connect wirelessly.

2. Check Network Configuration:
On both laptops, check the network configuration:


ifconfig
Both laptops should be  in the same subnet.

3. Ping Test:
Try pinging each other's laptops to check if there is connectivity:


ping <other-laptop-IP>
If successful, a connection is established.

4. Remote Log-in (SSH):
Both Tina and Tom can use SSH for remote log-in. Install the OpenSSH server if not already installed:

sudo apt install openssh-server  # For Ubuntu
sudo yum install openssh-server  # For CentOS
Then, they can log in remotely using:

ssh <username>@<other-laptop-IP>

5. File Sharing:
FTP (File Transfer Protocol):

Pro: Simple setup.
Con: Less secure, as credentials are sent in plaintext.
SCP (Secure Copy):

Pro: Secure, uses SSH for data transfer.
Con: Requires SSH access.
SFTP (SSH File Transfer Protocol):

Pro: Secure, provides both file operations and directory listings.
Con: Requires SSH access.


6. Troubleshooting Tools:
Wireshark: Captures and analyzes the packets on the network.
tcpdump: A command-line packet analyzer.
netstat: Displays network connections, routing tables, interface statistics, masquerade connections, etc.


7. Opening Ports at Firewall:
Importance:
Servers often listen on specific ports (e.g., 80 for HTTP, 22 for SSH).
Firewalls need to allow traffic on these ports for services to function.

8. Internet Connectivity:
DoS Attack Remedy:
Ensure unnecessary ports are closed.
Use firewalls to restrict access.
Employ security measures like fail2ban to block repeated failed login attempts.

9. Connect to the Internet:
Configure the laptops to connect to the Internet using the available network connection (Wi-Fi or Ethernet).

Summary:
Network Setup: Connect laptops, check ifconfig, ping each other.
Remote Log-in: Use SSH for secure remote log-in.
File Sharing: Choose between FTP, SCP, and SFTP based on security requirements.
Troubleshooting: Use tools like Wireshark, tcpdump, netstat for network diagnostics.
Firewall: Open specific ports for servers to run and ensure security.
Internet Connectivity: Connect laptops to the Internet with proper configuration.
By following these steps, Tom and Tina can effectively set up their private network, enable secure remote log-in, explore file sharing options, troubleshoot network issues, and understand the importance of firewall settings.





